Scrapwood Challenge Scrapwood Challenge
It's junk, it's crap, it's firewood
But some of the wood is good
I will start picking and preparing wood
Very much like I do in most challenges scrap wood
And while I'm setting up that wood
I'll tell you about the project
I'm going to try and make a bladeless fan
I'm not very sure how it will go
I am not confident at all
But it must be a fun project in either direction
I think it definitely lives up to the challenge
Scrap wood challenge
And by the way for those still asking
Wood is camphor Laurel
It was given to me by local business
That makes chopping boards
I'm going to make a fan with a segmented shift
I only did once before
That was when he came back
That one turns out good
So hopefully this one will work just fine too
Hopefully, the fan is actually working
If not then it will end
An interesting looking decor
You do not need to make three different sized rings
And I use an online calculator
To work out the dimensions of each piece
For cutting slices I will use my wedgie sled
On a table saw
It also does a very fine job
These small rings will make a fan base
And now I need to cut more segments
For larger coupler rings
Base rings have 6 sectors
But other episodes have 18
Even after changing the angle on the sled
I did a test with some old pine
To make sure it's accurate
Before cutting the rest of the sectors
I am using this ring made of bungee cord
Just to hold the pieces together
While I put a few rubber bands on
I just turned these plywood discs on a lathe
And they're going to have to mount the rings on a lathe
But now I'm going to use it
To help clamp the rings together
While glue sets
As expected the rings move around
When pressing
But I keep checking and modifying
So they take from each other
Please do not tell me about using salt to prevent them from moving
It's also easy enough to do this without
And I will provide salt for my dinner
Now I'm ready to start turning
But I'll quickly tell you what these pieces are
And how it will work
We hope how it will work anyway
This piece is at the bottom of the base
Which will feature a small fan
That would push the air up and in this episode here
This is the outer ring
This one here would be a good fit inside
And that will be the inner ring
Between the two there will be a void
And as the air pushes up
This void fills
It'll get forced out of the hatch in the back
And the air must come through
We must have a fan
I wished anyway
But at the moment I am not that confident
But we'll give it a go
One ends are not finished
A bit of lip left on there
But this is fine because we still need to set this goal
For other episodes to contain to
Now you don't need to make templates
To help form loops
These voids give some good airflow
This is just outside turning on
Now it starts to get tricky
I've got to convert inside
I need to use this template here
And if you look I've got to turn back in behind here
I have no way to do this
So I'm going to remove some material
Then I'm going to reverse this on chuck
And work from the other side
I have removed most of the materials
Go back to the template go
You can see that the front part of the rim
It is thicker than the rest of it
So I've already turned it down to the right thickness
Now I need to get in there
And do this a little bit tapered bit here
And to do that I'm going to use this diamond tool
All of that is done away from the inside by this back door
Now that he's handed over
We can see exactly where I've got from the last little hollow
And just to show you here
It's this little inside of an outer ring
It's the next day
The inner ring is mounted on a lathe
Ready to convert
You do not need to get a good fit between the two episodes
But only to that end where they join
Where this is an edge
To this end less when it gets in shape
I can start tapering this now
And I can keep testing it
And get this nice ring fit tight up there up there
Then I can use my template and finish the shape after that
The inner ring is very deep
It's the lowest level on the outer ring
So I just need to take off all around about 10mm
I am sure with a good push
That fit every way
So I will call it done
And I'll start forming it
Slot on the back is good looking
It seems even and where the air will come from
If he goes to plan
I'm just converting the interface for the two episodes
With them hold with that tight fit
I think it should work just fine
I will not gluing the two rings together
So I will still be able to reach the fan later
Because of that I am sanding the edge of the inner ring
Which will leave the setback details
Instead of trying to get them flush
I love it, and I figured it looked better anyway
Removing hot glue was not so hard at all
It only took a few minutes
Now I need to match the rings to the base
I can use SketchUp to work from where to make the cuts
I did this by two crossed cylinders
Then I took a base
Unfolded and then print it to a range
I was just going to go for it with trial and error
But this method will get me shut straight
I was going to cut this off with a handle saw
Because I did not have the right size hole saw
Or a little Forstner
Then I remembered that I've got a really cheap set of hole saws
The one there was the perfect size
It also started to dig it
I realized that I'm going to go through
Part of the edge inside
I did not want to do that
So by rocking it she managed
And it developed fine
The fan will need to be able to draw air into it
So the next thing is to cut some air intake holes
At base
I could easily drill a series of holes
And that would work but I think it's for a look
I played with many different ideas
Including this fake cartoon-up
I've decided I want to make a series of slots
I think that sounds great
But it is not the easiest thing to do
I've even made this jig
It took about an hour to make
We hope it works
I use two touches of hot glue to hold the guide in place
I made a mistake
The ends of those slots do not line up
That was my mistake, I was neglected
I put this block here
For the purpose of setting up a base against
And I didn't do that it was more than a few millimeters
I can repeat that end now it's the right set
On the other side luckily this is the back of the fan
So I can glue a little bit in there
And try to arrange it up
I bought this fan only for use in this project
And for its size it has good specifications
As far as I can see
But if it does not work well enough
We will consider using a computer fan instead
Stacks of reviews were good
And because I am very useless in electricity
This was an easy way to go
She has everything I need
The fan speed is set and it's also rechargeable
All I need to do is take parts
And rearrange them inside my fan
Which I think is something so that I can do
First I cut and make a plate with buttons
There wasn't enough material to make it rectangular
I had made a new painting
But I think it looked fine as it was
On the sides to open and slightly tapered
So it's well installed in there
Epoxy will be used to fix it in position
I made a plywood disc for the base
I screwed up the battery holder to that
Put some hair on the bottom
And extended the wires
I glued it a few small blocks inside the base
Screw the disk to
Now I attack fan housing
To get rid of any items I don't need
Leave the slice to select
It's a bit of a mess but I didn't sort it up after that
To test it out I'm using blue tack
Top rings held on
And make a good chop
Acting really well
So it is not a disaster
Although I could hear the fans struggling to pull the air in
So I decided to get rid of the base
With battery holder
Put some feet on the bass lift
And allow more air from under
The battery was unnecessary
And I'm not sure I have used it anyway
I did not go back and chamfered the holes
And retool the screws later
The circuit board can do with housing
To keep dust
Plus there are a couple of bulbs in this flash
It will hide those too
The best way is likely to be with a 3D printer
I don't have one but I'm thinking about something
I will probably make it later
This is definitely a big improvement
Now that more air can get a fan
That project was really fun
With much problem solving
It worked which was a bonus
I think it looks great as well
It can be improved with a stronger fan
And maybe this is something you will play with in the future
But I am happy that it works
Hope you enjoyed the video
If done please like and subscribe
thanks for watching
And I'll see you on the next one